---
layout: post
categories: [blog, cancer]
title: It's back (distal cholangiocarcinoma mets)
author:
  display_name: Jay
date: 'Oct 14, 2020'
---
It was a pretty shite summer (yeah, I'm looking at you [COVID-19](https://news.google.com/covid19/map?hl=en-IE&mid=%2Fm%2F01xd9&gl=IE&ceid=IE%3Aen){:target="_blank"}), but at least it was a "cancer free" time for me, which I am extremely thankful for.

Back on September 11th of 2018 I had the Whipple procedure to remove the tumor as well as a portion of my pancreas along with part of my stomach, gallbladder, bile duct and a portion of my intestines.  This procedure also examined 57 lymph nodes, of which [11 where involved](/assets/lymph_node_involvement.png){:target="_blank"}.  _This was unfortunate news, as it meant that there was a high probability of the cancer metastasizing somewhere else in the future._

Fast forward through [Folfirinox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FOLFIRINOX){:target="_blank"} treatment that ended in April of 2019 and then a lot of rehabilitation and training - I'm actually back in decent shape again (no where near where I was, but at least I can keep up with Denise mostly)!

I had a normal checkup and bloodwork done in April of this year (2020) here in Dublin, Ireland, and my CA 19-9 (this is the marker that is generally looked for in pancreatic cancer) had risen a bit, but the CT scan that I had showed nothing remarkable.  The recommendation from my oncologist was to get the bloodwork done again in a few weeks.  I did, and there was a pretty dramatic jump in the marker levels.  At that time I got a PET scan to try and determine where (assuming there was at this point) growth was happening.  The PET scan showed nothing remarkable either.

Next step was to get on a plane (yes, during COVID) to Houston, Texas to meet with my surgeon and oncologist at [MD Anderson](https://www.mdanderson.org/){:target="_blank"}.  They were already in receipt of the imaging and report from my CT and PET scans in Ireland, but requested that I get another CT scan there, as they felt the quality of the previous scans weren't as good as they could be.  The CT scan results looked as though the beast had made it's way into my lungs.  I had a bronchoscopy done in which they retreived samples from three different suspect areas.  Two of the samples where determined to be cancerous (the same as previously).

That's it.  It's back.  Unfortunately there really isn't anything that can be done now, except palliative care using chemotherapy.  My first treatment ([Gem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gemcitabine){:target="_blank"}+[Abraxane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protein-bound_paclitaxel){:target="_blank"}) was on September 11th 2020 (ironic? as my surgery was EXACTLY two years prior).  I've now gone through 4 treatments (plan is to do 9 treatments over 12 weeks) as of today.

The plan at this point is for the chemotherapy to keep the beast under control for as long as possible, so will see what my markers look like after these cycles complete and then decide on next steps.

Although it was a shite summer, I'm extremely grateful for the additional time that I've been so lucky to have with Riley, Connor and Denise.  I've changed my mindset a bit in regards to COVID and now look at it as "blessing in disguise" to be able to continue to be so close to the kids when, normally, at their age I most likely wouldn't ever see them (out with friends/school/first jobs/etc/etc).
